Adds a document for new integration imou. (#43104)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/imou.markdown

---
title: Imou
description: Integrate IMOU smart devices into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Camera
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_release: 2025.12
ha_config_flow: true
ha_domain: imou
ha_codeowners:
  - '@Imou-OpenPlatform'
ha_platforms:
  - camera
  - gateway central control
  - button
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> The Imou integration uses [Imou Open Platform](https://open.imoulife.com/) APIs to operate Imou camera under the account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Imou** {% term integration %} uses [Imou Open Platform](https://open.imoulife.com/) APIs to operate Imou camera under the account.
```

> By integrating this component, developers can remotely view and operate devices in Home Assistant.

Reviewer: Just developers? This is the user documentation.

> ### Security Considerations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Security and privacy considerations
```

> This integration communicates with Imou's cloud services. Your camera and other devices  feeds and device control commands will be routed through Imou's servers. Please review Imou's privacy policy and terms of service before proceeding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration communicates with Imou's cloud services. Your camera and other device feeds, as well as device control commands, will be routed through Imou's servers. Please review Imou's [privacy policy](https://open.imoulife.com/book/http/privacy.html) and terms of service before proceeding.
```

> You can refer to https://open.imoulife.com/book/http/privacy.html.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Prerequisites 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites

```

> Before using Imou integration, you need to create an Imou Open Platform account and become a developer. Please follow the steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using Imou integration, you need to create an Imou Open Platform developer account:
```

1. Visit the official website of [Imou Open Platform](https://open.imoulife.com/).

> 2. Register an Imou account (if you already have, log in directly), and click on **control board** on the official website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Register an Imou account (if you already have one, log in directly), and select **control board** on the official website.
```

3. Follow the prompts to complete **App Information**, obtain **AppId** and **AppSecret**.

> 4. Account creation completed, start integrating imou plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Once the account creation is completed, start integrating the Imou plugin.
```

> ## API Request Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## API request description

```
We use [sentence-style capitalization](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/capitalization)

> 1. Each developer's appId has a monthly quota of 30000 free API requests. The excess amount will be charged at the unit price, please refer to: https://open.imoulife.com/price ；

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Each developer's appId has a monthly quota of 30000 free API requests. The excess amount will be charged at the [unit price](https://open.imoulife.com/price).
```

> 2. The API request domain name is divided into three regional domain names based on global regions. Please choose the most suitable domain name according to your registered account. You can refer to: https://open.imoulife.com/book/http/develop.html ;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The API request domain name is divided into three regional domain names based on global regions. Choose the most suitable domain name according to your registered account. For details, refer to the [Imou developer documentation](https://open.imoulife.com/book/http/develop.html)
```

> 3. For more API information, please refer to 'HTTP interface' chapter on https://open.imoulife.com/book/en .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. For more API information, refer to the ['HTTP interface' chapter](https://open.imoulife.com/book/en).
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> ## Add Devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add devices
```

> Please add the device through the Imou Open Platform or Imou client first. The added device can be operated on Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to add the device through the Imou Open Platform or Imou client first. The added device can be operated on Home Assistant.
```

If you need to remotely operate the device, you need to meet the following network requirements:
- Ensure your devices and Home Assistant instance have stable internet connectivity
- Required bandwidth: Minimum 2Mbps upload/download per camera for HD streaming

> - Devices must be able to connect Imou's cloud servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure your devices and Home Assistant instance have stable internet connectivity.
- Required bandwidth: Minimum 2 Mbps upload/download per camera for HD streaming.
- Devices must be able to connect to Imou's cloud servers.
```

> ## Features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported functionality
```

> ### Camera PTZ function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Camera PTZ function

```

Remote control to rotate the camera lens direction to view monitoring images from different directions, supporting control in four directions: `up`, `down`, `left`, `right`.The premise is that the camera supports PTZ capability.

> ### Device Mute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Device mute

```

Gateway devices can be muted with one click when an alarm sound is triggered.

> ### Restart Device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Restart device

```

Remote control to restart devices, mainly used for certain configurations that require device restart to take effect. One click remote restart of device.

## More information

> Please stay tuned for more integrated feature updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## FAQ

Reviewer: should this be a troubleshooting section?
See
- https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/integration-docs-examples#basic-structure-of-an-integration-page
- https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/blob/current/source/_integrations/_integration_docs_template.markdown?plain=1#L167
